---
layout: post
title: A running list of quotations
excerpt: relating to topics of history, the collective cultural memory, originality, and the nature of creative works, our shared artistic heritage, and architecture.
---

## relating to topics of history, the collective cultural memory, originality, and the nature of creative works, our shared artistic heritage, and architecture.

#### “To be an artist is to invent and choose. You need to start by copying to then be able of inventing and, it is through the knowledge of the past that you acquire an avant-garde spirit.”

###### André Arbus

#### “The past is never dead. It’s not even past.”

###### William Faulkner

#### “Between the traditional and the new, or between order and adventure, there is no real opposition; and what we call tradition today is a knit work of centuries of adventure.”  

###### Jorge Luis Borges

#### “People are always talking about originality, but what do they mean? As soon as we are born, the world begins to work upon us, and this goes on to the end. What can we call our own except energy, strength, and will? If I could give an account of all that I owe to great predecessors and contemporaries, there would be but a small balance in my favor.”

###### Goethe

#### “Why don’t they try the same thefts? They’ll find out it’s easier to snatch Hercules’ club from him than a single line from Homer.”

###### Virgil

#### “Some one said: “The dead writers are remote from us because we know so much more than they did.” Precisely, and they are that which we know”

###### T.S. Eliot

#### “Nothing is original. Steal from anywhere that resonates with inspiration or fuels your imagination. Devour old films, new films, music, books, paintings, photographs, poems, dreams, random conversations, architecture, bridges, street signs, trees, clouds, bodies of water, light and shadows. Select only things to steal from that speak directly to your soul. If you do this, your work (and theft) will be authentic. Authenticity is invaluable; originality is nonexistent.”

###### Jim Jarmusch


#### “Our souls as well as our bodies are composed of individual elements which were all already present in the ranks of our ancestors. The “newness” in the individual psyche is an endlessly varied recombination of age-old components.”

###### Carl Jung


#### “He who lives to see two or three generations is like a man who sits some time in the conjurer’s booth at a fair, and witnesses the performance twice or thrice in succession. The tricks were meant to be seen only once, and when they are no longer a novelty and cease to deceive, their effect is gone.”

###### Schopenhauer


#### “I wonder if this thing we call originality isn’t an electric motor powered by the two poles of the already done and the new twist.”

###### David Mitchell


#### “The principles discoverable in the works of the past belong to us; not so the results. It is taking the end for the means.”

###### Owen Jones

#### “The Prolonged Mind is destroyed and re-created thru the process of previous experience.”

###### Bob Dylan

#### “Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal; bad poets deface what they take, and good poets make it into something better, or at least something different.”

###### T.S. Eliot


#### “A great man quotes bravely, and will not draw on his invention when his memory serves him with a word as good.”

###### Ralph Waldo Emerson


#### “I’m against the extreme modernist approach that prevails today. The irony is that modernists are now copying early twentieth-century modernism and don’t recognize that they’re reviving a historic style. We’re in an evolutionary period in which ideologies are all mixed up, and it is better to be good than original. After all, no one criticized Michelangelo for not inventing the basic form of his art.”

###### Robert Venturi


#### “Changes in the traditional way of building are only permitted if they are an improvement. Otherwise stay with what is traditional, for truth, even if it be hundreds of years old has a stronger inner bond with us than the lie that walks by our side.”

###### Adolf Loos




















[lnk-1]: http://www.google.com
[img-1]: {{ site.baseurl }}/images/config.png
<div class="footnote"><p id="fn1"><sup>1</sup> Footnote text <a href="#f1">↩</a></p></div>
