---
layout: post
title: Auguste Perret on truth, beauty, and Nature in architecture.
excerpt: A new translation of Perret's "Contribution à une théorie de l'architecture"
---

## He who conceals a column commits a fault. He who makes a false column commits a crime.

Like other avant-garde architects of the early 20th century, Auguste Perret is known for his radical, unprecedented designs. But unlike his contemporaries, Perret did not reject traditional principles in pursuit of novelty. The first architect to use reinforced concrete as a medium for architectonic expression, his designs nevertheless maintained traditional proportions and tectonic authenticity. His adaptation of existing formal languages to modern circumstances provides a refreshing counterpoint to the prevailing attitudes of his time.

With advances in the field of material sciences providing today's architect a continuous supply of new products, Perret is a relevant model for contemporary practice. Thus the relative scarcity of English translations of his written work is surprising.

In 1947, the Swiss art journal [Das Werk][lnk-1] published Perret's essay “Contribution à une théorie de l'architecture”. Part architectural treatise, part poetry, it contains important insights into Perret’s design philosophy. He discusses the relationship between technology and architecture, the inseparability of space and materiality, and what constitutes real beauty. [French speakers can enjoy the original version from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Digital Library][lnk-2]. With the help of a french Craigslister, I’ve produced the following translation:

TECHNOLOGY
eternal homage to nature,
sustenance for the imagination,
real source of inspiration,
the most powerful prayer,
the mother tongue of any creator,
technology, in the hands of a poet, leads to:
ARCHITECTURE

Architecture is the art of organizing space.
It’s through construction that it expresses itself.

Moving or stationary
Everything that occupies space
belongs to Architecture.

Architecture seizes space,
restricts, encloses, and confines it.
Its privilege is to conjure magical places,
created entirely by the mind.

Architecture is, of all artistic expressions,
the one most subject to material conditions.

Permanent are the conditions imposed by Nature.
Temporary are those imposed by Man.

Climate, its fluctuations,
materials, their properties,
physics, its laws,
perspective, its distortions;
The eternal and universal significance
of the lines and shapes,
impose permanent conditions.

Function, purpose, regulations, fashion,
impose temporary conditions.

The architect is a builder
who satisfies the temporary through the permanent.
He is the one who,
through a graceful combination of science and intuition,
designs a ship, a portico, a royal palace
capable of accommodating, as a whole,
the variety of elements necessary for its function.

In the act of building the architect satisfies
both permanent and temporary conditions.

Construction is the mother tongue
of the architect.
The architect is a poet who thinks and speaks
in construction.

The great buildings of today incorporate frameworks,
structures of steel or reinforced concrete.

The frame is to a building what the skeleton is to an animal.

Just like the skeleton of the animal,
rhythmic, balanced, symmetrical,
contains and supports the diverse organs
in their various locations,
the building’s structure
must likewise be composed, rhythmic, balanced, symmetrical.

It must contain the diverse elements and services
in their various locations,
required by its purpose, its function.

He who conceals any part of the structure
deprives the only legitimate, and most beautiful, ornament of architecture.
He who conceals a column commits a fault.
He who makes a false column commits a crime.

A building is a structure with elements
and forms imposed by the permanent conditions,
thereby subject to Nature,
which links it to the past and makes it timeless.

With the temporary and
permanent conditions satisfied,
the building - thus subject to Man and Nature -
gains character; it exhibits style and harmony.
Character, style, and harmony line the road that,
through truth, leads to beauty.

It is through the splendor of truth
that a building achieves beauty.

The truth
is in everything honored and burdened
with the task of bearing and protecting.

This truth is the part
that will make it shine,
and the part that
makes a man himself.

[lnk-1]: http://www.e-periodica.ch/digbib/volumes?UID=wbw-002
[lnk-2]: http://www.e-periodica.ch/digbib/view?var=true&pid=wbw-002:1947:34::1089#119
[img-1]: {{ site.baseurl }}/images/perret/
[img-2]: {{ site.baseurl }}/images/perret/
[img-3]: {{ site.baseurl }}/images/perret/
[img-4]: {{ site.baseurl }}/images/perret/
[img-5]: {{ site.baseurl }}/images/perret/
[img-6]: {{ site.baseurl }}/images/perret/
[img-7]: {{ site.baseurl }}/images/perret/
